<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1" />
<title>JSR 358 EG minutes: August 14 2012</title>

<!--

My personal stylesheet: <link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
And the jcp.org version: <link href="http://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

-->

<link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />


</head>
<body>
<h1 align="center">JSR 358 Expert Group Meeting Minutes<br />
  for 14 August 2012</h1>
<p align="center"><em>version 0.1: August 21, 2012</em></p>
<p align="center" class="red">&nbsp;</p>
<h2><strong>Date</strong></h2>
<p>August 14, 2012</p>
<h2>Location</h2>
<p>Teleconference.</p>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Poll results 
    <ul>
      <li>Terms of Use proposal</li>
      <li>Patent policy</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>IP flow issues</li>
  <li>Prioritizing and scheduling future discussions</li>
  <li><a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr358/downloads/download/Meeting%20Materials/JSR358-July31-2012.pdf">JSR 
    358 summary presentation</a></li>
  <li>Next steps/next meeting</li>
</ul>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Patrick Curran</li>
  <li> Heather Vancura</li>
  <li>John Rizzo</li>
  <li>Lakshmi Dontamsetti</li>
  <li>Paul Manfrini</li>
  <li>Jon Courtney</li>
  <li class="style1">Hernan Perrone</li>
  <li>Victor Grazi</li>
  <li>Van Riper</li>
  <li>Scott Jameson</li>
  <li>Steve Wolfe</li>
  <li>Martijn Verburg</li>
  <li>Don Deutsch</li>
  <li>Anish Karmarkar</li>
  <li>Scott Stark</li>
  <li>Steve Winkler</li>
  <li>Bruno Souza</li>
</ul>
<h2>Minutes</h2>
<p>Patrick reviewed the results of the Final Approval Ballot for JSR 355 (the 
  EC Merge) which was overwhelmingly passed by both ECs.</p>
<p>We reviewed the results of the three outstanding Doodle polls. The first and 
  simplest - whether to move forward with the Terms of Use proposal discussed 
  at the last meeting - received mostly positive responses. Two members, Aplix 
  and SAP, requested additional time for internal consultation. We agreed to wait 
  one week before proceeding. </p>
<p>The other two polls - on patent policy - showed a consensus for further discussion. 
  We recognized that the question of whether section 6 of the JSPA should be dropped 
  was posed much too broadly, since it covers cases other than the one we originally 
  considered: the obligation to license essential patents even when one had no 
  participation in the work of an Expert Group. </p>
<p>Don Deutsch pointed out that this obligation is broader than obligations imposed 
  by other standards-developing bodies, and that in the past this has led to at 
  least one resignation from the JCP. Moreover, he pointed out, no such broad 
  obligation is imposed on the employers of individual members, so that commercial 
  members are effectively penalized.</p>
<p>Scott Jameson agreed with Don and suggested that HP would support the elimination 
  of this particular obligation. He pointed out HP has to carefully study every 
  JSR to make sure that they are not inadvertently obliged to license patents, 
  and noted that the &quot;opt-out&quot; language in section 6 was inserted at 
  HP's request.</p>
<p>We agreed that it would be helpful to rephrase the question more narrowly. 
  Patrick agreed to do so.</p>
<p>Patrick asked whether we still wished to discuss and consider the &quot;big 
  picture&quot; with regard to IP flow and obligations. Members agreed that we 
  should.</p>
<p>John Rizzo argued that the term RAND should not be used in the JSPA since it 
  is subject to interpretation. Steve Wolfe responded that it would be difficult 
  to convince our lawyers to take this step. Someone pointed out that the problem 
  could be avoided if we switched all obligations to Royalty-Free.</p>
<p>After some discussion of how we might proceed logistically Patrick suggested 
  that we work on a simplified summary of the current JSPA. The HP, IBM, and RedHat 
  representatives volunteered to help with this effort. </p>
<p>Don Deutsch, noting that several members had little to say during this and 
  earlier meetings, asked whether this should be interpreted as a reluctance to 
  &quot;open the can of worms&quot; that the JSPA in its current form represents. 
  Scott Jameson admitted that the existing document is very confusing, and suggested 
  that we might not even be able to agree on how to interpret it. Paul Manfrini 
  noted that it is very daunting for new members.</p>
<p>Patrick reiterated that it would be very difficult to move forward without 
  a simple summary of the current document. He promised to initiate an effort 
  to generate such a summary with help from the &quot;volunteers&quot; - hopefully 
  in time for the next meeting which will be held on Monday August 26.</p>
<p>&nbsp; </p>
</body></html>