<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<title>JSR 358 Expert Group minutes: July 12 2012</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>

<body>
<h2>Minutes of JSR 358 Expert Group Meeting: July 12, 2012</h2>
<h3>Meeting details </h3>
<ul>
  <li>Date &amp; Time 
    <ul>
      <li>Thursday July 12, 2012, 10:00 - 11:00 am PDT</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>Location 
    <ul>
      <li>Teleconference</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>Dial-in 
    <ul>
      <li> +1 (866) 682-4770</li>
      <li>Outside the US: <a href="https://www.intercallonline.com/portlets/scheduling/viewNumbers/listNumbersByCode.do?confCode=6279803"> 
        global access numbers</a> or +1 (408) 774-4073 </li>
      <li> Conference code: 627-9803</li>
      <li> See email for security code</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>WebEx 
    <ul>
      <li>Browse for the meeting from <a href="https://jcp.webex.com">https://jcp.webex.com</a></li>
      <li>No registration required (enter your name and email address)</li>
      <li>See email for password</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<h3>Attendance</h3>
<ul>
  <li>PMO: Patrick Curran</li>
  <li>Aplix: John Rizzo</li>
  <li>AT&amp;T: Roger Mahler</li>
  <li>CableLabs: Jon Courtney</li>
  <li>Werner Keil</li>
  <li>Siemens: Marquart Franz</li>
  <li>TOTVS: Hernan Perrone</li>
  <li>Vodafone: Guenter Klas</li>
  <li>Azul: Gil Tene</li>
  <li>Credit Suisse: Susanne Cech Previtali</li>
  <li>Fujitsu: Mike DeNicola</li>
  <li>HP: Scott Jameson</li>
  <li>Intel: Anil Kumar</li>
  <li>London Java Community: Somay Nakhal</li>
  <li>Oracle: Don Deutsch, Anish Karmarkar</li>
  <li>Red Hat: Scott Stark</li>
  <li>SAP: Steve Winkler</li>
  <li>SouJava: Bruno Souza, Yara Senger</li>
  <li>Twitter: Chris Aniszczyk</li>
</ul>
<h3>Agenda</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Roll call</li>
  <li>Agenda review</li>
  <li>Overview of <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr358/pages/Home">java.net 
    project</a> </li>
  <li>Operating procedures 
    <ul>
      <li>Operating in public: 
        <ul>
          <li>Use Experts mailing list or the Issue tracker</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>How often should we meet, and when?</li>
      <li><a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358">Issue-tracker</a> usage</li>
      <li>Assigning tasks 
        <ul>
          <li>No response to my recent message: 
            <ul>
              <li>Non-assert patent policy</li>
              <li>Section 6 (broad patent grants)</li>
              <li>Who expects they will respond?</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Next steps</li>
</ul>
<h3>Minutes</h3>
<p>Patrick reviewed the <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr358/pages/Home">java.net 
  project</a>. He suggested that EG members subscribe to the Observers mailing 
  list but pointed out that those who do not wish to subscribe can still browse 
  the archives (see the link in the left-hand navigation menu on the project's 
  home page.)</p>
<p>He explained that the Wiki will (at least initially) be used only for one-way 
  communication and he demonstrated the <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr358/pages/DocumentIndex">Document 
  Archive</a> feature, explaining that this is a front-end to the java.net <em>downloads</em> 
  area, which therefore need not be visited. Someone asked whether it is possible 
  to get automatic notifications when something is added to the archive. Later 
  experimentation showed that the answer is yes in theory (there's an RSS feed 
  for each Wiki page that will send a notification when it's changed) but that 
  this is not very useful in practice since the notification consists of a &quot;diff-style&quot; 
  listing of the Wiki markup for that page. This ought not to be a problem since 
  Patrick always sends an email notification to the Experts mailing list when 
  documents are added to the archive.</p>
<p>We reviewed the <a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358">Issue Tracker</a>. 
  Patrick suggested that since we have so many different topics to consider in 
  this JSR we should discuss them via comments in the Issue Tracker - where they 
  will be grouped together - rather than through more amorphous discussions on 
  the mailing list. He explained that several <em>Components</em> had been created 
  in the Issue Tracker in order to classify issues into different types, and that 
  he has already logged an issue for everything on our list of items for consideration 
  in this JSR. He encouraged members to review the issue list, to comment existing 
  issues, and to log new issues where necessary. </p>
<p>Patrick explained that it is possible to subscribe to the <em>Issues</em> mailing 
  list, which will send an email notification whenever an issue is logged or changed, 
  but he warned that the traffic could be high, and suggested that this option 
  not be used without a suitable mail filter. It was pointed out that JIRA offers 
  RSS feeds, which might be a better solution. Later investigation revealed that 
  the feed on the <a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358">JIRA home page 
  for JSR 358</a> is broken, but the <em>Issues</em> and <em>Comments </em>feeds 
  that are accessible from the <em>Views</em> menu on the <a href="http://java.net/jira/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=11399">JSR 
  358 - all issues</a> filter page work very well, providing a nicely-formatted 
  notification of changes. He promised to document this in the Wiki.</p>
<p>We then moved on to discuss when we would meet and how we would conduct our 
  business. We agreed to meet every two weeks, and Patrick promised to circulate 
  a Doodle poll to choose a day and time. We recognized that only a subset of 
  Expert Group members would attend these biweekly meetings, and agreed that it 
  would be necessary to report back to the full Expert Group at EC meetings and 
  possibly at other times to obtain their approval for recommendations made by 
  the sub-group. We did not discuss - but we should in the next meeting - the 
  precise role of these meetings (what to call them, whether they are decision-making 
  or merely advisory, and so on.)</p>
<p>As for operating procedures, we agreed that we should cover specific topics 
  in each meeting. These should be specified as far in advance as possible so 
  people can plan to attend the meetings covering topics they're interested in. 
  As a first step we will need to list the different topics, to decide priorities, 
  and to decide how much (relative) time to spend on each.</p>
<p>We recognized that we will need to delegate work to <em>virtual sub-groups</em> 
  who will research a particular topic, list the issues, and prepare a presentation 
  for a future meeting at which they will present the options and lead a discussion. 
  Later we will also need to delegate individuals to draft text for inclusion 
  in the Process Document or the Standing Rules, or to be taken as input by lawyers 
  who will re-draft the JSPA.</p>
<p>Patrick noted that from time to time we will need legal input, and suggested 
  that since this process can be time-consuming members should specify whether 
  they intend to provide input, and estimate when it will be provided.</p>
<p>Don Deutsch promised to provide formal responses from Oracle on business and 
  legal matters.</p>
<p>We agreed to follow up on process issues at the next meeting, and then to prioritize 
  and &quot;size&quot; the various issues and to begin to put together a calendar 
  for future meetings. We will also poll members to determine which issues most 
  concerned them, and to ask for volunteers to conduct further research.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</body>
</html>
