<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1" />
<title>JSR 358 EG minutes: August 14 2012</title>

<!--

My personal stylesheet: <link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
And the jcp.org version: <link href="http://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

-->

<link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />


</head>
<body>
<h1 align="center">JSR 358 Expert Group Meeting Minutes<br />
  for 27 August 2012</h1>
<p align="center"><em>version 0.1: August 29, 2012</em></p>
<p align="center" class="red">&nbsp;</p>
<h2><strong>Date</strong></h2>
<p>August 27, 2012</p>
<h2>Location</h2>
<p>Teleconference.</p>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Interpreting the JSPA</li>
  <li><a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr358/downloads/download/Meeting%20Materials/JSR358-July31-2012.pdf">JSR 
    358 summary presentation</a></li>
  <li>Next steps/next meeting</li>
</ul>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Patrick Curran</li>
  <li> Don Deutsch</li>
  <li>Scott Jameson</li>
  <li>Lakshmi Dontamsetti</li>
  <li>Paul Manfrini</li>
  <li>Martijn Verburg</li>
  <li>Ed Lynch</li>
  <li>Scott Stark</li>
  <li>Mike DeNicola</li>
  <li>Steve Wolfe</li>
  <li>Calinel Pasteanu</li>
  <li>Werner Keil</li>
  <li>Anish Karmarkar</li>
  <li>Gil Tene</li>
  <li>Steve Winkler</li>
  <li>VanRiper</li>
</ul>
<h2>Minutes</h2>
<p>Patrick apologized for not having completed a &quot;translation&quot; of the 
  existing JSPA and suggested that instead we review <a href="JSPA-ScottStark.html">Scott 
  Stark's summary</a>.</p>
<p>Gil Tene asked whether the only problem we are currently trying to solve that 
  related to Section 6. Scott Jameson suggested that the hub and spoke IP-flow 
  is another. Patrick added the topic of when IP should vest, pointing out that 
  currently it doesn't vest until the JSR completes. This is a problem for open-source 
  projects that release &quot;early and often.&quot; Also, he suggested that we 
  should consider whether compatibility should be tied to licensing IP, noting 
  that Scott Stark seems to have suggested that compatibility testing should be 
  separated from IP licensing. Scott responded that he was talking more about 
  RI and TCK licensing. Gil responded that these are completely separate issues 
  - what counts is how IP is granted, and how it flows.</p>
<p>Gil stated that tying IP grants to compatibility is a cornerstone of the JCP 
  - modifying this would be a major change.</p>
<p>Steve Wolfe responded that TCK licensing is linked to IP flow, since the Spec 
  License requires that you license the TCK. Werner Keil asked whether we have 
  different licenses. Steve responded yes, of course - part of our problem is 
  the multitude of licenses.</p>
<p>Gil suggested starting with inbound IP flow. IP associated with contributions 
  flows only to compatible implementations. IP rights are granted to the Spec 
  Lead, who can re-license them. </p>
<p>Patrick pointed out that individuals do not bind their employers to essential 
  patent grants.</p>
<p>Steve Wolfe suggested that he would still like to see an English-language summary 
  of the JSPA. Patrick asked whether Scott's document was sufficient and Steve 
  responded that it wasn't since it simply extracted the JSPA. Steve also pointed 
  out that members have the option to opt-out from essential patent grants, saying 
  that this was heavily-negotiated when the current version of the JSPA was defined. 
  He suggested that the new transparency requirements should make it much easier 
  to do the research to determine what patents you may be obliged to license. 
  Gil responded that this is still a significant burden. </p>
<p>Patrick reminded members that the Doodle poll had asked whether the obligation 
  to license essential patents should be restricted to those who are members of 
  the EG. Most people who responded said we should discuss this further. He asked 
  what people thought about this suggestion. Mike DeNicola responded that he thinks 
  this obligation should be restricted to members of the EG. Don Deutsch rephrased 
  the question: does anyone think that we should retain the broad obligation? 
  Steve Wolfe responded that creating a new JSPA that would increase the risk 
  of &quot;unkown IP claims&quot; would be a dangerous step backward. He said 
  that he didn't think that anyone has ever exercised their right to opt-out. 
  Gil Tene agreed with Steve. Nobody else offered an opinion.</p>
<p>Steve Wolfe suggested that we consider simpler IP regimes.</p>
<p>Patrick suggested that taking a top-down approach (starting from what we would 
  like a new JSPA to say) might be better than a bottom-up approach (analyzing 
  the existing JSPA.) He asked Steve to discuss his concern with the &quot;hub-and-spoke&quot; 
  model.</p>
<p>Steve responded that all IP flows to the Spec Lead, who then relicenses it 
  to implementors. He suggested that instead the grants could go directly to &quot;the 
  community.&quot; Where there is a need for broader grants - eg to Oracle to 
  fulfil TLDA obligations - these could be granted in a manner similar to that 
  used in OpenJDK.</p>
<p>Patrick asked whether he was suggesting that instead of IP being granted to 
  the Spec Lead, who would then sublicense it, IP would be licensed directly to 
  implementors. Steve agreed, noting that any kind of license (liberal or restrictive) 
  could be used in this model.</p>
<p>Scott Stark asked how &quot;the community&quot; would be defined. Patrick suggested 
  anyone who implements the spec.</p>
<p>Anish Karmarkar asked whether this model would also cover essential patents. 
  Patrick responded that under the current model essential patents already flow 
  directly to implementors.</p>
<p>Mike DeNicola said that he likes the idea of a direct IP flow, suggesting that 
  the model should be more like OpenJDK. Gil Tene suggested that all implementors 
  should have similar rights as the Spec Lead. Martijn Verburg agreed that making 
  the model more like OpenJDK would be desirable.</p>
<p>Gil noted that the Oracle Contributor Agreement (which OpenJDK contributors 
  must sign) makes much broader IP grants than JSPA - in particular it makes very 
  broad grants to Oracle. This would be too much for the JSPA. He suggested that 
  not all Spec Leads should be given equally broad rights.</p>
<p>Scott Jameson said that just because we want to use OpenJDK as a model doesn't 
  necessarily mean that we would start with the OCA. </p>
<p>Steve Wolfe agreed, noting that we wouldn't necessarily want to model our IPR 
  language on the OCA - rather we should define a broad, common inbound license 
  with supplemental rights to Oracle.</p>
<p>Patrick asked how we should move the discussion forward. He pointed out that 
  we should spend a full day on JSR 358 during our Prague meeting, and suggested 
  that we would need volunteers to lead discussion on various topics. </p>
<p>Martijn Verburg agreed to volunteer for something. Gile Tene volunteered to 
  lead a discussion on Independent Implementations. Patrick sresponded that we 
  will need four or five volunteers for Prague and he agreed to follow up by email.</p>
<p>Steve Wolfe argued that the JSR 358 Expert Group session should not be bound 
  by the EC Standing Rules requirement that all participants be present in person, 
  and asked whether the phone line could be opened up for two-way communication 
  during this portion of the meeting.</p>
<p>Patrick agreed that this was a reasonable request and promised to discuss it 
  with the full EC at the start of the Prague meeting.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</body></html>