<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1" />
<title>JSR 358 IP Working Group minutes: October 24 2013</title>

<!--

My personal stylesheet: <link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
And the jcp.org version: <link href="http://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

-->

<link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="http://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />


</head>
<body>
<h1 align="center">JSR 358 IP Working Group Meeting Minutes<br />
for October 24 2013</h1>
<h2>Date</h2>
<p>Thursday 24 October 2013, 1:00-2:00 pm PDT</p>
<h2>Location
</h2>
<p>Teleconference</p>
<h2>Agenda</h2>
<ul>
  
  <li>Review <a href="https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting%20Materials/JSR-358-IPWG-Minutes-Oct17-22-2013.html">last week's minutes</a></li>
  <li>Continue discussion of&nbsp;<a href="https://java.net/projects/jsr358/downloads/download/Meeting Materials/IP-flow-v8.pdf">Spec IP-flow</a> focusing on Essential Patents</li>
  <li>Review
    the <a href="https://java.net/jira/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&amp;requestId=11399">Issue List</a> to identify additional areas where we can work while the legal proposals are under review</li>
</ul>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Patrick Curran</li>
  <li>Steve Wolfe</li>
  <li>Werner Keil</li>
  <li>Anish Karmarkar</li>
  <li>Anil Kumar</li>
  <li>Don Deutsch</li>
</ul>
<h2>Minutes</h2>
<p>We reviewed version 8 of the IP Flow document and agreed that it is a reasonably 
  complete and concise representation of what we have discussed and decided so 
  far. Patrick agreed to publish it again, and to ask EC members to review it 
  (with their lawyers if necessary) and to provide feedback within the next month 
or so.</p>
<p>Anil suggested that perhaps we could use a Wiki to provide the feedback. Patrick 
  responded that we could use the Wiki on the JSR 358 java.net project for this 
  purpose, or alternatively we could use the Issue Tracker. (Or indeed a threaded 
  discussion.) Steve Wolfe expressed a preference for simple email. Patrick noted 
  that any email responses should be sent to the Experts mailing list 
  (experts@jsr358.java.net) in order to ensure that we meet our transparency 
  requirements (mail sent to that list is automatically mirrored to the this will 
be copied to the Observers mailing list). He agreed to ask what members would prefer.</p>
<p>Patrick reported the he and Don had met with Jim Wright (Oracle's Open Source Officer) to discuss our broader IP and licensing proposals. He hoped Jim would be soon be able to join us at a meeting to provide feedback on those proposals.</p>
<p>We then reviewed our  <a href="https://java.net/jira/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&amp;requestId=11399">Issue List</a>. We noted that we are already addressing the majority of items on the list, and that many of the others are low-level or procedural, and can be addressed during the drafting process. We did identify the following items which we thought would merit further discussion:</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-35">Escrow process</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-34">End of Life for JSRs</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-32">Expert Group dissolution at Final Release</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-29">The role of the Reference Implementation</a></li>
</ul>
<p>We agreed to meet next week to discuss these items.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</body></html>