<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1" />
<title>JSR 358 EG minutes: February 12 2013</title>

<!--

My personal stylesheet: <link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
And the jcp.org version: <link href="http://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

-->

<link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="http://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />


</head>
<body>
<h1 align="center">JSR 358 Expert Group Meeting Minutes<br />
for February 12 2013</h1>
<p align="center" class="red">NOTE: these minutes are extracted from the still-private draft minutes of the February 12 Executive Committee meeting. <br />
They are therefore subject to change until those minutes are approved and made public.</p>
<h2><strong>Date</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Tuesday 12 February 2013, 7:00-9:00 am PST, during EC meeting</li>
</ul>
<h2>Location</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Teleconference</li>
</ul>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li><a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr358/downloads/download/Meeting%20Materials/JSR-358-February-2013.pdf">JSR 358 summary</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting%20Materials/RITCKLicensingProposal-v1.1.pdf">CloudBees proposal on TCK and RI licensing</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting Materials/Patent-Altenatives-and-Standard-Licenses.pdf">IBM proposal on licensing and patents</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://jcp.org/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2012-10-16/Hub-and-Spoke-Alternative.pdf">IBM presentation on Hub-and-Spoke IP flow</a></li>
</ul>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<ul>
  <li>All EC members except  Stefano Andreani, Credit Suisse, Google, and the London Java Community were represented at the meeting</li>
</ul>
<h2>Minutes</h2>
<p>Patrick summarized the discussions the IP Working Group has been having (see the <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr358/pages/Home">java.net project</a> for details) and then Steve Harris summarized <a href="http://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting Materials/RITCKLicensingProposal-v1.1.pdf">his proposal on standardized RI and TCK licensing</a>. Patrick and Don explained that they had taken these proposals to Oracle Legal and Execs who were sympathetic to the suggestions. They &quot; didn't say no&quot; but did note that it is critical that our  core compatibility principles and practices be maintained.</p>
<p>Gil Tene responded that he had two concerns with the CloudBees proposal. Firstly, it made the platforms &quot;special.&quot; Steve Harris responded that the existing Process Document language already makes the platforms special. Gil responded that the  proposal goes beyond the current state and takes rights away from non-Oracle participants, arguing that in Java ME others also want the opportunity to monetize and commercialize their work. His second concern is the centrality of the platform JSRs. Azul cares most about having access to the platforms.</p>
<p>Werner Keil interjected that some Java EE Spec Leads believe that copyright applies only to the Spec and not to the JavaDoc. Patrick promised to get a formal response to this concern (which Werner has already logged in the <a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-49">JSR 358 Issue Tracker</a>.)</p>
<p>Steve Wolfe suggested that Gil Tene and Scott Stark bring their own proposals to the IP Working Group. They agreed to do so.</p>
<h4>&nbsp;</h4>
</body></html>