<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=iso-8859-1" />
    <title>JSR 358 Working Group minutes: March 26 2015</title>
    <!--
My personal stylesheet: <link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
And the jcp.org version: <link href="http://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
-->
    <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" />
    <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="https://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1 align="center">JSR 358 Working Group Meeting Minutes<br />
      for March 26 2015</h1>
    <h2>Date</h2>
    <p>Thursday 26 March 2015, 9:00-10:00 PM PST</p>
    <h2>Location
    </h2>
    <p>Teleconference</p>
    <h2>Agenda</h2>
    <ul>
      
      <li>Review <a href="https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting%20Materials/JSR-358-IPWG-Minutes-March-19-2015.html">minutes of last week's meeting</a></li>
      <li>Review <a href="https://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-90?filter=12420">Action Items</a></li>
      <li>Review the Doodle polls</li>
      <li>Review the updated <a href="https://java.net/projects/jsr358/downloads/download/Working%20Documents/IP-flow-v11.pdf">IP-Flow document</a></li>
      <li>Next steps</li>
    </ul>
    <h2>Attendees</h2>
    <ul>
      <li> Patrick Curran (PMO)</li>
      <li>Leonardo Lima (V2COM)</li>
      <li>Prasad Yendluri (Software AG)</li>
      <li>Scott Jameson (HP)</li>
      <li>Mike DeNicola (Fujitsu)</li>
  </ul>
    <h2><strong>Minutes</strong>    </h2>
    <p>We reviewed the minutes of last week's meeting.</p>
    <p>We reviewed the interim Doodle poll results. Patrick and Mike expressed surprise that more people were not in favor of eliminating the obligation for non-participants to license patents. Scott suggested that this might be because people thought that obligation gives a greater assurance to users of Java. We agreed that at the next EC meeting we will discuss poll results and encourage members to explain why they voted the way they did,</p>
    <p>We reviewed version 11 of the IP-flow document.</p>
    <p>Scott suggested that the text for the 2nd use-case should  make it explicit that under the current regime the Spec Lead would have to be a party to the termination action. Under new regime this would not be necessary.</p>
    <p>We agreed to add a  fourth &quot;grant&quot; bullet as described in the highlighted text.</p>
    <p>We agreed that this version of the document is cleaner and clearer than earlier versions, and is almost ready to pass to Oracle Legal. We agreed to finalize the document at next week's Working Group meeting and then inform EC members that we will be asking them to discuss and approve the document at the April 14 EC meeting.</p>
    <p>Patrick agreed to review AIs, and assign simpler ones to &quot;volunteers&quot; and then we will review all AIs at the next WG meeting.</p>
    <h2><strong>Next meeting</strong></h2>
    <p>Teleconference: Thursday April 2 2015, from 9:00 am to 10:00 am PDT.</p>
    <p>&nbsp;</p>
    <p>&nbsp;</p>
    <p>&nbsp;</p>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
    <p>&nbsp;</p>
    <p>&nbsp;</p>
    <p>&nbsp;</p>
    <p>&nbsp;</p>
    <p>&nbsp;</p>
    <p>&nbsp;</p>
    <p>&nbsp;</p>
  </body>
</html>
