## Minutes of JSR 358 Expert Group Meeting: July 12, 2012

### Meeting details

*   Date & Time
    *   Thursday July 12, 2012, 10:00 - 11:00 am PDT

*   Location
    *   Teleconference

*   Dial-in
    *   +1 (866) 682-4770
    *   Outside the US: [global access numbers](https://www.intercallonline.com/portlets/scheduling/viewNumbers/listNumbersByCode.do?confCode=6279803) or +1 (408) 774-4073
    *   Conference code: 627-9803
    *   See email for security code

*   WebEx
    *   Browse for the meeting from [https://jcp.webex.com](https://jcp.webex.com)
    *   No registration required (enter your name and email address)
    *   See email for password

### Attendance

*   PMO: Patrick Curran
*   Aplix: John Rizzo
*   AT&T: Roger Mahler
*   CableLabs: Jon Courtney
*   Werner Keil
*   Siemens: Marquart Franz
*   TOTVS: Hernan Perrone
*   Vodafone: Guenter Klas
*   Azul: Gil Tene
*   Credit Suisse: Susanne Cech Previtali
*   Fujitsu: Mike DeNicola
*   HP: Scott Jameson
*   Intel: Anil Kumar
*   London Java Community: Somay Nakhal
*   Oracle: Don Deutsch, Anish Karmarkar
*   Red Hat: Scott Stark
*   SAP: Steve Winkler
*   SouJava: Bruno Souza, Yara Senger
*   Twitter: Chris Aniszczyk

### Agenda

*   Roll call
*   Agenda review
*   Overview of [java.net project](https:/github.com/jcp-org/jsr358/pages/Home)
*   Operating procedures
    *   Operating in public:
        *   Use Experts mailing list or the Issue tracker
    *   How often should we meet, and when?
    *   undefined usage
    *   Assigning tasks
        *   No response to my recent message:
            *   Non-assert patent policy
            *   Section 6 (broad patent grants)
            *   Who expects they will respond?
*   Next steps

### Minutes

Patrick reviewed the [java.net project](https:/github.com/jcp-org/jsr358/pages/Home). He suggested that EG members subscribe to the Observers mailing list but pointed out that those who do not wish to subscribe can still browse the archives (see the link in the left-hand navigation menu on the project's home page.)

He explained that the Wiki will (at least initially) be used only for one-way communication and he demonstrated the [Document Archive](https:/github.com/jcp-org/jsr358/pages/DocumentIndex) feature, explaining that this is a front-end to the java.net _downloads_ area, which therefore need not be visited. Someone asked whether it is possible to get automatic notifications when something is added to the archive. Later experimentation showed that the answer is yes in theory (there's an RSS feed for each Wiki page that will send a notification when it's changed) but that this is not very useful in practice since the notification consists of a "diff-style" listing of the Wiki markup for that page. This ought not to be a problem since Patrick always sends an email notification to the Experts mailing list when documents are added to the archive.

We reviewed the undefined. Patrick suggested that since we have so many different topics to consider in this JSR we should discuss them via comments in the Issue Tracker - where they will be grouped together - rather than through more amorphous discussions on the mailing list. He explained that several _Components_ had been created in the Issue Tracker in order to classify issues into different types, and that he has already logged an issue for everything on our list of items for consideration in this JSR. He encouraged members to review the issue list, to comment existing issues, and to log new issues where necessary.

Patrick explained that it is possible to subscribe to the _Issues_ mailing list, which will send an email notification whenever an issue is logged or changed, but he warned that the traffic could be high, and suggested that this option not be used without a suitable mail filter. It was pointed out that JIRA offers RSS feeds, which might be a better solution. Later investigation revealed that the feed on the undefined is broken, but the _Issues_ and _Comments_ feeds that are accessible from the _Views_ menu on the [JSR 358 - all issues](http://java.net/jira/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=11399) filter page work very well, providing a nicely-formatted notification of changes. He promised to document this in the Wiki.

We then moved on to discuss when we would meet and how we would conduct our business. We agreed to meet every two weeks, and Patrick promised to circulate a Doodle poll to choose a day and time. We recognized that only a subset of Expert Group members would attend these biweekly meetings, and agreed that it would be necessary to report back to the full Expert Group at EC meetings and possibly at other times to obtain their approval for recommendations made by the sub-group. We did not discuss - but we should in the next meeting - the precise role of these meetings (what to call them, whether they are decision-making or merely advisory, and so on.)

As for operating procedures, we agreed that we should cover specific topics in each meeting. These should be specified as far in advance as possible so people can plan to attend the meetings covering topics they're interested in. As a first step we will need to list the different topics, to decide priorities, and to decide how much (relative) time to spend on each.

We recognized that we will need to delegate work to _virtual sub-groups_ who will research a particular topic, list the issues, and prepare a presentation for a future meeting at which they will present the options and lead a discussion. Later we will also need to delegate individuals to draft text for inclusion in the Process Document or the Standing Rules, or to be taken as input by lawyers who will re-draft the JSPA.

Patrick noted that from time to time we will need legal input, and suggested that since this process can be time-consuming members should specify whether they intend to provide input, and estimate when it will be provided.

Don Deutsch promised to provide formal responses from Oracle on business and legal matters.

We agreed to follow up on process issues at the next meeting, and then to prioritize and "size" the various issues and to begin to put together a calendar for future meetings. We will also poll members to determine which issues most concerned them, and to ask for volunteers to conduct further research.