# JSR 358 Expert Group Meeting Minutes  
for 31 July 2012

_version 0.1: August 1, 2012_

## **Date**

July 31, 2012

## Location

Teleconference (during the July 31 Executive Committee meeting)

## **Agenda**

*   [JSR 358 Summary presentation](/files/meeting%20materials/jsr358-july31-2012.pdf)
*   [Terms of Use for JSR collaboration projects](/files/meeting%20materials/javatou-july21-2012.pdf)

## Attendance

*   Patrick Curran
*   Heather Vancura
*   Stefano Andreani
*   John Rizzo
*   Paul Manfrini
*   Roger Mahler
*   Radomír Věncek
*   Dan Bandera
*   Werner Keil
*   Wang Cheng
*   Roger Riggs
*   Marquart Franz
*   Christoph Kuhmuench
*   Hernan Perrone
*   Guenter Klas
*   Victor Grazi
*   Wayne Beaton
*   Mike DeNicola
*   John Weir
*   Josh Bloch
*   Scott Jameson
*   Steve Wolfe
*   Anil Kumar
*   Ben Evans
*   Don Deutsch
*   Anish Karmarkar
*   Scott Stark
*   Fabio Velloso
*   Yara Senger
*   Chris Aniszczyk

## Minutes

We briefly discussed difficulty of scheduling meetings at a time that is convenient for all members. Patrick apologized in advance for the likelihood that we will choose a meeting time that does not work for the Nokia members in China, pointing out that meetings in the mid- to late-morning California time are convenient for all but the Chinese members. He promised to work out a mechanism to allow the Chinese members to participate (perhaps by holding occasional extra meetings at 7:00 am California time.) See the [JSR 358 summary presentation](/files/meeting%20materials/jsr358-july31-2012.pdf) for more information on this and the other procedural matters discussed during this session.

Patrick presented a proposal for standardized terms of Use for JSR collaboration projects (see [presentation](/files/meeting%20materials/javatou-july21-2012.pdf).) He explained the necessity of ensuring that "casual" contributions made by non-JCP members through collaborative mechanisms such as public mailing lists and issue-trackers are covered by appropriate IP grants. Members were generally supportive of the proposal.

John Rizzo suggested that when implemented the proposal should advise Spec Leads of the need to prominently remind participants in their work that they are bound by the Terms of Use. Two ways of doing so are by a prominent notice on the project's home page and by posting periodic reminders to the public mailing list.

John Weir noted that the issue of the relationship between employer and employee should be taken into account while developing the Terms of Use. Patrick agreed to link the two issues in the Issue Tracker.

Patrick then led a discussion on the process the Expert Group should follow in order to progress from high-level proposals such as that outlined in the Terms of Use presentation. He noted that he had received no feedback to two questions on patent policy that were posed to the EC mailing list, and that no comments had been received from EC members on the 37 issues he had logged in the Issue Tracker. He said that he understood that consulting internally with corporate lawyers would take time, but argued that it in these cases members should respond that this was what they were doing, and should provide an estimate of when they expected to be able to provide an answer, rather than simply not respond at all.

Steve Wolfe and Dan Bandera noted that it is difficult to get the attention of corporate lawyers unless they are shown specific language to review and critique. Patrick responded that it is inefficient to ask lawyers to draft language for a proposal that may not be acceptable to EG members. Steve Wolfe provided the analogy of a _Term Sheet_ (a concise outline of desired terms and conditions that lawyers can then "execute" by drafting specific language.) He suggested that the Terms of Use presentation could be considered an acceptable Term Sheet, and suggested that Patrick ask the Oracle lawyers to draft language based on it. Patrick agreed that this was a reasonable approach, but reiterated that it would be preferable to have general EG agreement on this before moving forward. He agreed to follow up on this and other unresolved questions by email. He also suggested that we treat this issue as a test-case for how we could reach agreement and move forward on other issues.

[After the meeting Patrick realized that open-ended discussions on the EC mailing list would be inefficient, and instead proposed a process whereby Doodle polls are used to ask members whether they wish to move forward with a particular proposal, to which standardized responses (yes, no, need time to consult internally, need further Expert Group discussion) can be provided. This process is now in trial.]

The meeting then adjourned.