# JSR 358 Expert Group Meeting Minutes  
for 14 August 2012

_version 0.1: August 21, 2012_

## **Date**

August 14, 2012

## Location

Teleconference.

## **Agenda**

*   Poll results
    *   Terms of Use proposal
    *   Patent policy
*   IP flow issues
*   Prioritizing and scheduling future discussions
*   [JSR 358 summary presentation](/files/Meeting%20Materials/JSR358-July31-2012.pdf)
*   Next steps/next meeting

## Attendance

*   Patrick Curran
*   Heather Vancura
*   John Rizzo
*   Lakshmi Dontamsetti
*   Paul Manfrini
*   Jon Courtney
*   Hernan Perrone
*   Victor Grazi
*   Van Riper
*   Scott Jameson
*   Steve Wolfe
*   Martijn Verburg
*   Don Deutsch
*   Anish Karmarkar
*   Scott Stark
*   Steve Winkler
*   Bruno Souza

## Minutes

Patrick reviewed the results of the Final Approval Ballot for JSR 355 (the EC Merge) which was overwhelmingly passed by both ECs.

We reviewed the results of the three outstanding Doodle polls. The first and simplest - whether to move forward with the Terms of Use proposal discussed at the last meeting - received mostly positive responses. Two members, Aplix and SAP, requested additional time for internal consultation. We agreed to wait one week before proceeding.

The other two polls - on patent policy - showed a consensus for further discussion. We recognized that the question of whether section 6 of the JSPA should be dropped was posed much too broadly, since it covers cases other than the one we originally considered: the obligation to license essential patents even when one had no participation in the work of an Expert Group.

Don Deutsch pointed out that this obligation is broader than obligations imposed by other standards-developing bodies, and that in the past this has led to at least one resignation from the JCP. Moreover, he pointed out, no such broad obligation is imposed on the employers of individual members, so that commercial members are effectively penalized.

Scott Jameson agreed with Don and suggested that HP would support the elimination of this particular obligation. He pointed out HP has to carefully study every JSR to make sure that they are not inadvertently obliged to license patents, and noted that the "opt-out" language in section 6 was inserted at HP's request.

We agreed that it would be helpful to rephrase the question more narrowly. Patrick agreed to do so.

Patrick asked whether we still wished to discuss and consider the "big picture" with regard to IP flow and obligations. Members agreed that we should.

John Rizzo argued that the term RAND should not be used in the JSPA since it is subject to interpretation. Steve Wolfe responded that it would be difficult to convince our lawyers to take this step. Someone pointed out that the problem could be avoided if we switched all obligations to Royalty-Free.

After some discussion of how we might proceed logistically Patrick suggested that we work on a simplified summary of the current JSPA. The HP, IBM, and RedHat representatives volunteered to help with this effort.

Don Deutsch, noting that several members had little to say during this and earlier meetings, asked whether this should be interpreted as a reluctance to "open the can of worms" that the JSPA in its current form represents. Scott Jameson admitted that the existing document is very confusing, and suggested that we might not even be able to agree on how to interpret it. Paul Manfrini noted that it is very daunting for new members.

Patrick reiterated that it would be very difficult to move forward without a simple summary of the current document. He promised to initiate an effort to generate such a summary with help from the "volunteers" - hopefully in time for the next meeting which will be held on Monday August 26.