# JSR 358 IP Working Group Meeting Minutes  
for December 5 2013

## Date

Thursday 5 December 2013, 1:00-2:00 pm PDT

## Location

Teleconference

## Agenda

*   Review theÂ [Process Document](http://jcp.org/en/procedures/jcp2)
*   Next steps

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran
*   Scott Stark
*   Heather Vancura
*   Mike DeNicola
*   Mike Milinkovich
*   Don Deutsch
*   Anish Karmarkar
*   Werner Keil
*   Steve Wolfe

## Minutes

We started to review the Process Document, and marked it up where changes will be needed. ([See marked-up document](https://java.net/projects/jsr358/downloads/download/Meeting%20Materials/ProcessDoc-05December2013.pdf).)

During this review we realized that there are two requirements that the PMO is not currently enforcing:

*   The requirement that Spec Leads submit an Issue List with materials for review/ballot.
*   The requirement that no votes on JSR ballots be accompanied by references to one or more Issues that explain the concerns.

The PMO will begin enforcing these requirements.

We agreed to meet again next week to complete the Process Doc review.