# JSR 358 IP Working Group Meeting Minutes  
for December 5 2013

## Date

Thursday 12 December 2013, 1:00-2:00 pm PDT

## Location

Teleconference

## Agenda

*   Continue review of theÂ [Process Document](https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting%20Materials/ProcessDoc-05December2013.pdf)
*   Next steps

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran
*   Scott Jameson
*   Don Deutsch
*   Scott Stark
*   John Weir
*   Mike DeNicola
*   Mike Marzo
*   Steve Wolfe

## Minutes

We continued our review the Process Document, and marked it up where changes will be needed. (See [marked-up document](https://java.net/projects/jsr358/downloads/download/Meeting%20Materials/ProcessDoc-12December2013.pdf).)

PMO to enforce: "No" votes must be accompanied by references to the Issue Tracker items (if any) that if resolved would persuade the member to change the vote to "yes".

Consult Spec Leads for their ideas on possible changes to the Process Doc.

Wait for IP Flow doc feedback before we meet again. Patrick to send out reminders.