# JSR 358 Working Group Meeting Minutes  
for April 2 2015

## Date

Thursday 2 April 2015, 9:00-10:00 PM PST

## Location

Teleconference

## Agenda

*   Review [minutes of last week's meeting](https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting%20Materials/JSR-358-IPWG-Minutes-March-26-2015.md)
*   Review [Action Items](https://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-94?filter=12421)
*   Review the Doodle polls
*   Review the updated [IP-Flow document](https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Working%20Documents/IP-flow-v12.pdf)
*   Next steps

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran (PMO)
*   Don Deutsch (Oracle)
*   Mike Milinkovich (Eclipse)
*   Scott Jameson (HP)
*   Mike DeNicola (Fujitsu)
*   Anish Karmarkar (Oracle)
*   Scott Stark (Red Hat)

## **Minutes**

We reviewed the minutes of last week's meeting.

We reviewed the interim Doodle poll results.

We reviewed the as-yet unpublished version 13 of the IP-Flow document. While discussing the use-cases Patrick pointed out that the Qisda/BenQ bankruptcy that held up several JSRs several years ago would not have been so disruptive if IP was granted directly to those implementing a JSR. He noted that we have an issue ([JSR358-35](https://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-35): Escrow process) that specifically addresses this by suggesting an Escrow process, but pointed out that during previous discussions we had agreed this would probably be too difficult to define and implement. Mike Milinkovich pointed out that the combination of immediate vesting of IP and collaborative development processes for the Spec and RI meant that only in the case of the TCK might an escrow process be helpful. Anish suggested that bankruptcy might be considered a slightly different use-case from the one we have documented: the transfer of the Spec Lead role. Patrick agreed to modify the document accordingly.

Patrick noted that Section 4D of the current JSPA says that IP related to Contributions can be withdrawn if significant changes are made to licensing terms. He asked whether we want to keep this language or whether it will even be needed. He pointed out that some people probably would consider a switch from, for example, MIT to GPL to be a significant change in terms.

Scott Stark argued that we should keep this language. Mike Milinkovich pointed out that once a contribution has been published "withdrawal" is not feasible, though it might be appropriate to agree not to continue using that IP.

Scott and Mike suggested that if a dramatic change occurs then perhaps the JSR should be terminated and another one started. Patrick pointed out that we have an issue that addresses this [JSR358-33](https://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-33): Withdrawal of IP grants) and suggested that we consider the matter further.

Patrick agreed to update the document one more time. He will then circulate it to the EC and inform them that we will vote at the next EC meeting on whether we all approve its contents and want to take it to Oracle Legal.

We then briefly reviewed all our open issues. Patrick noted that we either have or are working on solutions for many of them. We agreed that we would review them again at the April EC meeting and that during next week's working group meeting we would "deep-dive" on a couple of non-IP-related issues.

## Next meeting

Teleconference: Thursday April 9 2015, from 9:00 am to 10:00 am PDT.