# JSR 358 IP Working Group Meeting Minutes  
for August 22 2013

## Date

Thursday 15 August 2013, 1:00-2:00 pm PDT

## Location

Teleconference

## Agenda

*   Review [last week's minutes](https://java.net/projects/jsr358/downloads/download/Meeting%20Materials/JSR-358-IPWG-Minutes-Aug-15-2013.md).
*   Continue discussion ofÂ [Spec IP-flow](https://java.net/projects/jsr358/downloads/download/Meeting%20Materials/IP-flow-v5.pdf) focusing on Essential Patents

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran
*   Heather Vancura
*   Scott Jameson
*   Steve Harris
*   Mike Milinkovich
*   Anish Karmarkar
*   Steve Wolfe
*   Mike DeNicola
*   Werner Keil

## Minutes

We reviewed last week's minutes and then continued the discussion of the version 5 draft of the IP-flow document, focusing again on Essential Patents.

During discussion we answered several of the questions posed in that draft:

*   Do we want to weaken the current section 6 obligations? Yes
*   Who has an obligation to disclose? All members, but we will explicitly ask the primary contact.
*   Do we want to add an option to "opt out" of the obligation to license as a means of protecting "crown jewels"? Yes
*   Is there any obligation to license patents that are **not** disclosed? Yes.

These decisions and other matters we discussed have been incorporated into the next revision of the document which is available [here](https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting%20Materials/IP-flow-v6.pdf). (The document has also been broken down into labeled sub-sections, which will hopefully make it easier to navigate. Some additional questions have also been added.)

Since several of us will be unavailable over the next few weeks we agreed to continue the discussion via email.

The date of the next meeting is TBD - Patrick will discuss/announce via email.