# JSR 358 IP Working Group Meeting Minutes  
for July 25 2014

## Date

Friday 25 July 2014, 11:00-12:00 pm PDT

## Location

Teleconference

## Agenda

*   Discussion of the Employer Contribution Agreement (no lawyers present)

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran (PMO)
*   Heather Vancura (PMO)
*   Steve Harris (CloudBees)
*   Mike DeNicola (Fujitsu)
*   Steve Wolfe (IBM)
*   Werner Keil
*   Anish Karmarkar (Oracle)
*   Scott Stark (RedHat)

## **Minutes**

We reviewed the minutes of last week's meeting and agreed to base the Employer Contribution Agreement (ECA) on the current version of the JSPA rather than try to anticipate what the next version of the JSPA might look like. We recognized that when JSR 358 completes we may need to do a Maintenance Release of JSR 364 to revise the ECA in order to bring it into line with the new version of the JSPA.  

We then discussed which of these two approaches we should take:  

1) The ECA should require exactly the same commitments as in the JSPA.  
2) The ECA should require the same commitments as in the JSPA but only for JSRs in which the member actually contributes.  

**Patrick:** I prefer option 2\. (No patent commitments for JSRs not participated in.)  

**Mike:** Agrees.  

**SteveW:** If we choose #1 that will complicate any tweaking we may need to do in the future since there will already be a broad-reaching commitment in place. So - I prefer #2.  

**Werner:** This agreement would not apply to self-employed members?  

**Patrick:** Right.  

**Anish:** Supports #2\. Asks whether we want to permit disclosure and exclusion of patents?  

**Patrick:** Let's review the JSPA to see whether it permits permits disclosure and exclusion with respect to others' contributions to JSRs in which you participate.  

**SteveH:** Prefers #2\. Notes that participating in an umbrella JSR should be equivalent to participating in all included JSRs.  

**Scott, Heather:** Option 2.  

**Patrick:** We have agreement on option 2\. Should people have the option to disclose and opt out of obligations to license essential patents (with respect to contributions made by others)?  

**SteveH:** Disclosure is a good thing. The Spec Lead wants to know about patent issues.  

**Patrick:** I suggest we ask Legal to draft language identical to current JSPA.  

> <span class="highlight">The ECA should specify that for every JSR a member contributes to (whether or not they are a member of the Expert Group) the member's employer incurs the same obligations and rights as the specified in the current JSPA for those who are members of the Expert Group. The employer would incur no obligations with respect to JSRs that the employee does not participate in.</span>

**Anish:** Let's consider disclosure, exclusion, withdrawal from JCP. If someone comes to the table for a particular JSR and influences the spec should they have the right to exclude or otherwise opt-out of obligations to license IP?  

**Patrick:** Let's not discuss what we might want in a future revision of the JSPA - just base the ECA on whatever the JSPA currently says. If it allows disclosure and exclusion then the ECA will.  

**Patrick:** OK - we have agreement on the ECA. Should I also ask Legal to draft an Affiliate Membership agreement? Bear in mind that they may want to base it on the UPL, and we haven't yet reached agreement on that. If, hypothetically, we agreed to drop the UPL from the bigger IP picture would you be OK with basing an Affiliate Membership Agreement on the UPL?  

**SteveH:** No.  

**SteveW:** Probably no.**Patrick:** We should probably wait a while on this...  

**Patrick:** Final topic - prep for the EC meeting. I suggest we meet next week to discuss and then we can follow up either by email and/or with another meeting the following week. If we do meet next week, should we bring lawyers?  

After a brief discussion we agreed to meet next week without lawyers. The goal is not to try to answer the "how do we reconcile compatibility and open source licensing?" question, but rather to come up with a crisp statement of the problem/question. People should consult with their lawyers in advance and bring their input, and should take the output of the meeting back to their lawyers. We can follow up by email or even with another meeting the following Friday (at which lawyers could be present if we think it necessary).

## **Next meeting**

Friday August 1 at 11:00 am PDT.