# JSR 358 IP Working Group Meeting Minutes  
for July 18 2014

## Date

Friday 18 July 2014, 11:00-12:00 pm PDT

## Location

Teleconference

## Agenda

*   Discussion of the Employer Contribution Agreement (no lawyers present)

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran (PMO)
*   John Pampuch (Azul)
*   Scott Jameson (HP)
*   Steve Wolfe (IBM)
*   Anish Karmarkar (Oracle)
*   Leonardo Lima (V2COM)  

## **Minutes**

Patrick apologized for not sending out a reminder about this meeting until very late, resulting in low participation. Nevertheless, we felt we had enough people to have a useful discussion.

**Patrick:** Let's start by discussing whether the Employer Contribution Agreement (ECA) should be per-JSR or per-employee (grants made for every JSR the employee might participate in). The latter would be easier administratively, but employers might prefer the more fine-grained control they'd get over IP grants if the agreements were only per-JSR.

**Anish**: How about if the employer designates a contact person who approves employees' participation in JSRs (like we do today with Associate Members)?

**John:** A single agreement would be simpler - leave it up to the employer to manage who can participate in what.  

**Leonardo:** not easy in a large company

**Scott:** I agree. How about writing the agreement so it defaults to "all JSRs" but have the option to list only specific JSRs?  

**Patrick:** Who would track this if the initial approval was for one or two JSRs and then the employee contributes to a third? The employee? The Spec Lead?

**Leonardo, Scott:** The Spec Lead.

**Anish:** I would prefer the PMO to enforce things rather than spec leads or individuals. Not necessarily because I don't trust them, but because they are usually not aware of or more careless about IP matters.

**Patrick:** The PMO will be involved if someone wants to join the Expert Group or be formally recognized as a Contributor since there is/will be a formal process for assigning people to these roles. However, the PMO cannot track (because they will not know about) more casual contributions. These can only be managed by the Spec Lead. We must educate the Spec Leads on these matters in our "starting a JSR" training materials. We could add language to section 3.2.1.1 (_Intellectual property considerations_) of the Process Document explaining the need to contact the PMO when adding someone to an EG or making them a Contributor, and we should encourage them to check at other times too for less formal contributions. I think we can manage an agreement that defaults to "all JSRs" but that might also be limited to specific JSRs.

**Patrick:** Our next topic (for discussion next week) should be the contents of the ECA. We agreed when we passed this on from the Individuals Working Group that since JSR 364 will complete this year, long before JSR 358 revises the JSPA, that we should default to deriving the ECA commitments from the current version of the JSPA, but that if we had a strong sense of the direction JSR 358 is taking we might want to anticipate that in the ECA. However, given our slow progress on JSR 358 we should probably just base the first version of the ECA on the current version of the JSPA. This suggests two possibilities:

1) exactly the same commitments as in the JSPA  
2) The same commitments as in the JSPA but limited to JSRs in which the employee actually contributes

We need broader representation in this Working Group in order to discuss these and pick one over the other. Hopefully we will get better attendance next week.

It's not clear that we can usefully discuss the flat IP flow (use cases) until we resolve the compatibility/open source issue (hopefully at next full EC meeting). So, at next week's meeting we will continue this discussion of the ECA. After that we need to prep for the full EC discussion on compatibility & open source

## **Next meeting**

Friday July 25 at 11:00 am PDT.