# JSR 358 Working Group Meeting Minutes  
for February 19 2015

## Date

Thursday 19 February 2015, 9:00-10:00 pm PST

## Location

Teleconference

## Agenda

*   Re-sync: where are we now and what remains to be done?

*   As recorded in the minutes from the last two EC meetings, we now have a consensus on RI licensing
*   The principal outstanding issues are:

*   Flat IP (addressed in the latest draft of our [IP Flow document)](The%20latest%20version%20of%20our%20summary%20document:%20https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting%20Materials/IP-flow-v8.pdf)

*   Where we left this: Oracle Legal said "we can do it, but tell us why it's important"

*   We said we would discuss use-cases, but never pursued that

*   Essential Patents (also addressed in the latest draft of our [IP Flow document)](The%20latest%20version%20of%20our%20summary%20document:%20https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting%20Materials/IP-flow-v8.pdf)

*   We did not take this proposal to Oracle Legal

*   Ensure that the JSPA does not inhibit or prohibit collaborative RI development and/or open-source licensing (for example, IP vests only after the JSR goes final)

*   We have not yet addressed this - how to move forward?

*   [Review open Issues](https://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-84?filter=12196)

*   Next steps: task assignments and plans for future meetings

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran (PMO)
*   Heather Vancura (PMO)
*   Michael Berg (Intel)
*   Mike DeNicola (Fujitsu)
*   Prasad Yendluri (Software AG)
*   Scott Jameson (HP)
*   Anish Karmarkar (Oracle)
*   Don Deutsch (Oracle)
*   Mike Milinkovich (Eclipse)
*   Werner Keil

## **Minutes**

Patrick summarized where we left things before we embarked on an extensive discussionof RI licensing. He noted that the IP Flow document addresses the two main topics: flat IP flow and patent grants.

Scott Jameson reminded us that at the London f2f in May 2014 we identified several "use cases" for a flat IP flow. As recorded in the minutes these were:

*   Transferring IP from one Spec Lead to another while a JSR is in progress (perhaps because the original Spec Lead loses interest and the JSR goes dormant).
*   Transferring IP from one Spec Lead to another after a JSR is completed (for example due to bankruptcy as in the Siemens, BenQ, Qisda case several years ago).
*   Incorporating work developed elsewhere without the need to create "side-letters" (see JSRs 235 and 236), making it easier to_implement then standardize_ rather than - as today - _standardize then implement_.

On the third topic (ensuring that the JSPA does not inhibit or prohibit collaborative RI development and/or open-source licensing) Patrick wondered whether we need to do much, or whether we can simply say to the lawyers "we don't want this - please fix it". We agreed that we should perform at least a cursory review of the JSPA before doing so.

We then reviewed version 8 of the IP Flow document in detail.

Patrick noted that we need to distinguish between patents granted with respect to one's own contributions (where the term Essential Patents ought not to be used) and Essential Patents that must be granted with respect to the contributions of others.

We agreed to poll EC members to ask whether they prefer non-assert covenants to explicit patent grants.

Patrick noted that whatever we come up with must give JCP members the option not to license essential patents that they consider "Crown Jewels".

We noted that the current JSPA assumes that the deliberations of EGs are "private" (confidential) until Public Review, and public thereafter. This no longer applies in an age of transparency and needs to be fixed.

We agree that the IP FLow docuent is a decent summary of where we left off but that it probably needs more work before it's good enought to act as a "Term Sheet" we can take to Legal.

Scott Jameson pointed out that we will need to familiarize the new members with this material, and figure out whether they are in agreement.

Next steps: focus on the IP Flow document. Tighten it up, get a renewed consensus on it (including the new members), work on use cases, and take it to Legal.

Then (or perhaps in parallel) work through the Issue Tracker, add items as necessary, and prioritize everything as High, Medium, or Low. Assign other items to "volunteers".

We will spend the next two meetings preparing to take this material to the EC meeting on March 10.

Scott pointed out that we need IBM's participation. Patrick agreed to follow up with Steve Wolfe. [He did so, and Steve promised to attend future meetings.]

## **Next meeting**