# JSR 358 IP Working Group Meeting Minutes  
for October 17 2013

## Date

Thursday 17 October 2013, 1:00-2:00 pm PDT

## Location

Teleconference

## Agenda

*   Continue discussion ofÂ [Spec IP-flow](https://java.net/projects/jsr358/downloads/download/Meeting%20Materials/IP-flow-v7.pdf) focusing on Essential Patents.

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran
*   Don Deutsch
*   Scott Jameson
*   Mike Milinkovich
*   Steve Wolfe
*   Scott Stark
*   Werner Keil
*   Steve Harris

## Minutes

We reviewed version 7 of the IP-flow document, focusing on Essential Patents. Patrick agreed to tighten up the document in the hope that next week we can review it again, and agree that it's good enough for people to take back to their lawyers for review.

At next week's meeting we will also review the Issue List in order to identify additional areas where we can work while the legal proposals are under review.