# JSR 358 IP Working Group Meeting Minutes  
for November 21 2013

## Date

Thursday 21 November 2013, 1:00-2:00 pm PDT

## Location

Teleconference

## Agenda

*   Review [last week's minutes](https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting%20Materials/JSR-358-IPWG-Minutes-Oct-31-2013.md)
*   Feedback on the [IP Flow document](https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting%20Materials/IP-flow-v8.pdf)
*   Review the [Issue List](https://java.net/jira/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=11399)
*   Next steps

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran
*   Don Deutsch
*   Anish Karmarkar
*   Mike DeNicola
*   Scott Jameson
*   Scott Stark
*   Werner Keil
*   Steve Harris
*   Heather Vancura

## Minutes

We reviewed feedback on the IP Flow document from Red Hat.

We reviewed the Issue List and once again determined that all substantive issues are already being addressed.

We agreed that at the next meeting (on December 5) we will review the Process Document for possible changes.